# BELLABEAT Case Study 
## INTRODUCTION
This case study presents a data analysis project conducted as part of the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate course, Capstone Project, focusing on the usage of Bellabeat Smart Devices. Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused smart products designed specifically for women.

The company was founded in 2013 by Urška Sršen and Sando Mur and has expanded quickly since, now with the possibility to become a greater player in the global smart device market. Our team have been asked to analyze smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. The insights we discover will then help guide marketing strategy for the company.

**Currently, company has 6 key product/services offerings:**

1. **Bellabeat app:** Health and wellness app giving health related data and informing lifestyle decisions. Serves as the hub for information collected from the other company/non-company wellness products
2. **Leaf:** Wellness tracker that can be worn as a bracelet, necklace, or clip, tracks activity, sleep, and stress
3. **Time:** Smart watch to track activity, sleep, and stress
4. **Spring:** Smart water bottle to track hydration during the day
5. **Ivy:** Ivy is a smart-wearable product made specifically for women, just like its predecessor. It monitors women’s biometric data: respiratory rate, resting heart rate, heart rate variability (HRV), and cardiac coherence, as well as lifestyle data.
6. **Membership:** A subscription-based program to offer 24/7 personalized guidance on nutrition, health, activity, sleep, and beauty.

## ASK
**BUSINESS TASK:** Identify trends in how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices to gain insight and help guide marketing strategy for Bellabeat to grow as a global player.

**Key Stakeholders:**

· **Urška Sršen** — Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer

· **Sando Mur** — Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder; key member of the Bellabeat executive team

· **Bellabeat marketing analytics team** — A team of data analysts responsible for collecting, analyzing, and reporting data that helps guide Bellabeat’s marketing strategy.

## PREPARE
Data Source: <a href="https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit">FitBit Fitness Tracker Data</a>

**Data Organisation:** This data set contains personal fitness tracker from thirty fitbit users provided with 18 .CSV files. Data is organized in a long and wide format. The file contains detailed information about daily activity, sleep, weight, calories, and intensities.

The FitBit Fitness Tracker Data was collected in 2016 making the datasets outdated for current trend analysis. Additionally, while the data initially states a time range of 03-12-2016 to 05-12-2016, I am considering only the dataset with most recent available data (4/12/2016 to 5/12/2016).

**Licensing**

**This dataset is under CC0:** Public Domain license meaning the creator has waive his right to the work under the copyright law. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.

**The dataset has limitations:**

Only 30 user data is available. The central limit theorem general rule of n≥30 applies. Limitations for this data exist due to the sample size and absence of key characteristics of the participants, such as gender, age, location, lifestyle.

**The data follows an ROCCC approch:**

• **Reliability:** The data is from 30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data and generated by from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk.

• **Originality:** The data is from 30 FitBit users who agreed to a personal tracker, third party data collected using Amazon Mechanical Turk.

• **Comprehensive:** Data minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, sleep monitoring, calories used, daily steps taken. The dataset is limited and most data is recorded during certain days of the week.

• **Current:** Information was gathered between March and May of 2016. Since the data is outdated in 2024, consumers’ current FitBit usage may have altered.

• **Cited:** CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through Mobius.

## PROCESS
I will be choosing R for this project because, while I have some experience with tools like SQL and Excel, R is a new and exciting tool for me. My only exposure to R so far has been during this Certification course. R allows me to perform data cleaning, processing, and visualization efficiently within a single platform, making it an excellent choice for managing and presenting data insights effectively.

